.TH JTFRAME-MEM 1 "April 2026" "JTFRAME" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jtframe-mem \- generate RTL files from a core \fBmem.yaml\fR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jtframe mem
.RI "<core-name> [flags]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBjtframe mem\fR
parses
\fBcores/<corename>/cfg/mem.yaml\fR
and generates the memory-related RTL and include files required by synthesis
and simulation.
It is the bridge between the declarative memory description in the core
configuration and the concrete files consumed later by
\fBjtframe files\fR,
\fBjtcore\fR,
and
\fBjtsim\fR.
.PP
Generated files are normally written under
\fBcores/<corename>/target/<target>/\fR.
With
\fB--local\fR,
output is written to the local verification or working folder instead.
.PP
The selected target matters because
\fBjtframe mem\fR
also consumes the target-side framework files already present under
\fB$JTFRAME/target/<target>/\fR.
.SS Top-Level Keys
.TP
.B include
Import additional YAML fragments, either by naming another core or by pointing
at a specific file.
.RS
.nf
include:
  \- game: cop
  \- file: ../../cop/cfg/mem.yaml
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B params
Define named values referenced later from SDRAM offsets or other generated
logic.
.TP
.B download
Describe address or data transforms applied while ROM data is downloaded.
The
\fBpre_addr\fR,
\fBpost_addr\fR,
and
\fBpost_data\fR
switches route generated signals through extra game-module ports.
\fBnoswab\fR
disables the default byte swapping and is usually better handled in the MRA
flow instead.
.TP
.B ports
Add generated ports to the game module.
These are typically used together with custom download transforms or external
memory interfaces.
.TP
.B game
Instantiate a game module name other than the default
\fB<core>_game\fR
or
\fB<core>_game_sdram\fR.
.TP
.B clocks
Generate clock-enable signals from a base clock.
Each entry can emit one or more
\fBcen\fR
signals and may gate them with core readiness signals.
.TP
.B audio
Describe the analog summing and filtering model used to generate JTFRAME audio
support files.
This section supports a global RC stage, per-channel RC or FIR filters, board
variants under
\fBpcb\fR,
and channel metadata such as
\fBstereo\fR,
\fBunsigned\fR,
and
\fBdata_width\fR.
.TP
.B sdram
Describe external SDRAM layout.
Use either
\fBbanks\fR
or
\fBcache-lanes\fR,
but not both at the same time.
Bank offsets are expressed in 16-bit SDRAM words, not bytes, and match the
generated
\fBSLOT*_OFFSET\fR
semantics.
.TP
.B bram
Describe on-chip RAM, ROM, or PROM blocks.
Entries may include IOCTL save or restore metadata, simulation file overlays,
and optional second ports.
.SS Audio Notes
When both YM3012 outputs are tied into the same summing node, use the
resistance of one output as
\fBrsum\fR.
If only one YM3012 output is connected, set the channel
\fBpre\fR
gain to
\fB0.5\fR.
For K007232, JTFRAME can model two separate channels or the mixed output; the
mixed path can clip because the original board uses separate DAC paths.
.SS SDRAM Notes
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBdata_width\fR
in bank buses may be 8, 16, or 32 bits.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBcache_size\fR
selects between the standard ROM request cache and the data-serving cache.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBgfx_sort\fR
and
\fBgfx_sort_en\fR
describe the address bit reordering used for graphics-oriented downloads.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBsimfile\fR
metadata is consumed only by
\fBjtutil sdram --sim\fR
to patch generated SDRAM bank files for simulation.
.IP \[bu] 2
Top-level
\fBsdram.big_endian\fR
applies only to
\fBcache-lanes\fR.
Per-\fBsimfile\fR
\fBbig_endian\fR
applies only to 16-bit and 32-bit simulation loads.
.PP
A short SDRAM example:
.RS
.nf
sdram:
  banks:
    \- buses:
        \- name: tiles
          addr_width: 18
          data_width: 16
          offset: GFXBASE
          cache_size: 4
          simfile: { name: tiles.bin }
.fi
.RE
.SS BRAM Notes
BRAM entries can describe regular RAM, ROM downloaded into BRAM, or PROM data
mirroring the order expected by the MRA.
Optional
\fBioctl\fR
metadata can generate save or restore helpers, and
\fBdual_port\fR
adds a second interface when the block must be shared.
.PP
Use
\fB--inc\fR
to force generation of
\fBmem_ports.inc\fR
even when the current target flow would not otherwise need it.
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show the short command help.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-inc
Always generate
\fBmem_ports.inc\fR.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-local
Write generated files to the local folder instead of the target folder.
.TP
.B \-\-nodbg
Enable release-mode parsing by defining
\fBJTFRAME_RELEASE\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-t, \-\-target " name
Select the target platform.
The default is
\fBmist\fR.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jtframe (1),
.BR jtframe-files (1),
.BR jtframe-mra (1),
.BR jtutil-sdram (1),
.BR jtsim (1)
