.TH JTFRAME-MRA 1 "April 2026" "JTFRAME" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jtframe-mra \- generate MRA files from \fBmame2mra.toml\fR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jtframe mra
.RI "<core-name core-name...>"
.br
.B jtframe mra
.B \-\-reduce
.RI "<path-to-mame.xml> [flags]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBjtframe mra\fR
parses a core's
\fBcfg/mame2mra.toml\fR
and
\fBcfg/macros.def\fR
to generate MiSTer MRA files, Pocket JSON metadata, and merged
\fB.rom\fR
images.
It is the ROM-description stage used by JTFRAME before simulation and release
packaging.
.PP
The normal XML input is
\fB$JTROOT/doc/mame.xml\fR.
If
\fB$JTROOT/doc/custom.xml\fR
exists, it is parsed afterwards and may override machines with the same name.
When
\fB--reduce\fR
is used, the command reads the supplied XML file and writes back a reduced
machine list suitable for keeping under
\fB$JTROOT/doc/\fR.
.PP
Output is written either to
\fB$JTROOT/release/\fR
or to
\fB$JTBIN\fR
when
\fB--git\fR
is selected.
.SS Workflow
.IP \[bu] 2
Load and expand
\fBcfg/macros.def\fR
before interpreting the TOML.
.IP \[bu] 2
Read machine data from
\fBmame.xml\fR
and the optional
\fBcustom.xml\fR
overlay.
.IP \[bu] 2
Apply the rules in
\fBmame2mra.toml\fR
to choose games, rename or edit DIP switches, generate headers, and build the
final ROM layout.
.IP \[bu] 2
Emit MRA and, unless disabled, Pocket JSON and merged
\fB.rom\fR
files.
.SS Main TOML Sections
.TP
.B [global]
Global defaults such as fixed orientation when MAME metadata is not reliable.
.TP
.B [parse]
Select which MAME source files, parents, devices, or machine names are kept.
This section also handles debug-only machines, bootleg filtering, and promoted
main set names.
.TP
.B [Pocket]
Add Pocket-specific metadata such as extra display modes.
.TP
.B [cheat]
Associate per-game or shared cheat files and optionally disable cheat output.
.TP
.B [dipsw]
Rename, delete, offset, or extend DIP switch entries and provide explicit
defaults when multiple settings share the same bits.
.TP
.B [header]
Describe JTFRAME download headers, PCB IDs, generated header registers, region
offset tables, and frame trimming metadata.
.TP
.B [buttons]
Override button labels and dial behavior.
.TP
.B [ROM]
Describe which MAME regions become the merged
\fB.rom\fR
image, the order used in the MRA, NVRAM defaults, split rules, patches, and
allowed cartridge extensions.
.PP
A small example:
.RS
.nf
[parse]
sourcefile = [ "mamefile.cpp" ]
parents = [
  { name = "parentset", description = "Parent Description" }
]

[ROM]
order = [ "maincpu", "soundcpu", "gfx1" ]
.fi
.RE
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B \-\-alt
Generate only alternative MRA files.
.TP
.BI "\-\-buttons " names
Override the button labels used by the game, up to six buttons.
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-git
Save files to
\fB$JTBIN\fR
instead of the release folder.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show the short command help.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-mainonly
Parse only the main version of each game.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-md5
Calculate MD5 sums even when the ROM is not saved.
.TP
.B \-\-names
Print the title of each supported game.
.TP
.B \-\-nodbg
Skip machines marked as debug-only in the TOML.
.TP
.BI "\-\-path " dir
Set the path to MAME zip files.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-reduce
Reduce the XML file to the entries required by the selected cores.
.TP
.B \-\-rm
Delete the release and ROM folders in
\fB$JTROOT\fR
before proceeding.
.TP
.BI "\-\-setname " name
Generate output only for the specified set name.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-show_platform
Print the platform name and quit.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-skipMRA
Do not generate MRA files.
.TP
.B \-\-skipPocket
Do not generate Pocket JSON files.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-skipROM
Do not generate merged
\fB.rom\fR
files.
.TP
.BI "\-\-url " text
Set the author URL used in generated metadata.
.TP
.BI "\-\-year " text
Override the year string used in the MRA comment.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jtframe (1),
.BR jtframe-cfgstr (1),
.BR jtframe-mem (1),
.BR jtutil-mra (1),
.BR jtsim (1)
